# gender_differences
Gender differential transcriptome analysis in gastric and thyroid cancers

Cancer has an important and considerable gender differential susceptibility confirmed by several epidemiological studies. Thyroid (TC) and gastric cancer (GC) are examples of malignancies with higher incidence in females and males, respectively. Beyond environmental predisposing factors it is expected that gender-specific gene deregulation contribute to this differential incidence. To study this we performed a detailed characterization of the transcriptomic differences between genders using GTEx normal tissues and TCGA tumour tissues from stomach and thyroid, in terms of differential gene expression and co-expression network analysis. We found hundreds of sex-biased genes (SBGs) in normal tissues of stomach and thyroid. While most of the SBGs common to normal and tumor tissues are within sexual chromosomes, normal and tumor-specific SBGs come from the autosomes. Moreover, expression of cancer-associated genes differs between sexes in tumour and normal tissues. We also found thousands of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between paired tumour-normal tissues, in GC and TC. The DEGs from the most susceptible gender in each cancer were mostly down-regulated in the tumour tissue, showing an enrichment for tumour-suppressor genes (TSGs). Lastly, we found gender-specific gene networks in males for GC and females for TC, further correlated with cancer histological subtypes and involved in translational elongation and cellular respiration processes, respectively. Our results shed light on the molecular differences and commonalities between genders and provide novel insights in the differential risk underlying these cancers.
